Title: First warm weekend of 2010
Date: 2010-03-22 14:13
Author: srini
Category: restaurants
Tags: food
Slug: first-warm-weekend-of-2010

What a phenomenal weekend! It was nice and sunny and the best part was
it was not too hot!

Food wise it was a great weekend too.. Friday night we went to
[Aegean](http://www.aegeanrestaurants.com) in Framingham. Their bread
basket had fresh baked bread and Pita bread. This came with olive oil
and feta cheese. This combination was so tasty. The key here was their
Pita Bread... Fresh!! For the main course I order their Lamb Youvetsi.
This was a Braised Lamb with [Orzo](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orzo)
topped with grated cheese. My wife ordered the Mousaka. This was 
Layered eggplant, seasoned with ground meat, grated cheese and topped
with bechamel sauce (My wife is a sucker for white sauce!!). Both dishes
were very tasty and very very satisfying. My lamb was very succulent and
tender.. This was cooked with tomato sauce, spices and orzo. Did I
mention it was very satisfying! My wife's dish was good too... It was
like a lasagna but instead of pasta, made with eggplant.

Saturday morning was bright and started out a little cold but it got
warmer and ultimately turned out to be a great day to spend outdoors. We
met our cousins in Waltham and spent a couple of hours in Waltham
Commons. Got coffee, coffee cake and cranberry scones from [Cafe on the
Common](http://www.yelp.com/biz/cafe-on-the-common-waltham). A very cute
place with some tasty baked goods. The place looked like an old school
coffee shop.

For lunch we ended up in [Taqueria
Mexico](http://www.taqueriamexico.com/). My Bro-in-law recommended it...
looked like a whole in the wall..  the Food was very authentic and the
prices were not too high. Check out their menu and you will find some
traditional mexican dishes not available else where in and around
Boston. I wanted to get the Guisado De Carne De Puerco. This was slices
of pork cooked in green sauce with onions and peppers. Serverd with
rice, beans, salad and tortillas. I got chicken instead of the pork. My
Bro-in-law got the original dish and we both agreed the dish was better
with the chicken. The corn tortilas were fresh and went good with both
our dishes. My wife and my cousin got a chili reileno stuffed with
cheese, one green chicken enchilada with melted cheese and sour chream
on top. Served with rice, beans, saland. All dishes were yummy.

We then walked down Moody street to do some Indian Grocery Shopping at
[Patel Brothers](http://www.yelp.com/biz/patel-brothers-waltham). While
I was there I got 5 pounds of goat leg from waltham india grocery
planning to make mutton curry on sunday (will share the recipe). We then
stopped by [Lizzy's Homemade Ice cream](http://www.lizzysicecream.com/)
:) where I got their orange pineapple ice cream, my Wife got a chocolate
frappe, my cousin got a cup of vanilla ice cream whereas my bro-in-law
got some green tea.

Sunday was another fabulous day. The Sri Laxmi temple in Ashland was
going to Host the Indian festival
[Holi](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holi). I guess the temple chose to
celebrate it on Sunday as it was really cold the weekend of the actual
day. I celebrated Holi after like 10 years. It was a lot of fun playing
with colors with your friends and family. The organizers did a good job
of arranging for food and Indian tea for everybody. I then invited my
cousin's family along with other family friends for an impromptu dinner.

Dinner was a big hit! I made mutton curry, Priya made okra fry. My
Cousin Vandana made an awesome dish with Cholle and Spinach. The family
friends made Channa Dal. It turned out to be a feast and a fitting end
to this awesome weekend!!
