Title: About Me
Date: 2009-02-10 18:38
Author: srini
Slug: about-me

My name is Srinivas and everybody calls me either Srini or Shireen. I am
a Senior Software Engineer at State Street Global Advisors.Â  I completed
my Masters in [Computer Science](http://www.cs.umb.edu/) at the
[University of Massachusetts Boston](http://www.umb.edu/) in the spring
of 2004. Click
[here](http://www.nyayapati.com/srao/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/myaward.jpeg)
and
[here](http://www.nyayapati.com/srao/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/gradpic.jpeg)
to see some pictures from the graduation.

I am basically a fun loving guy, who loves to have a good time. I enjoy
traveling, music, reading, surfing the net, meeting new people, making
friends, eating and cooking. I love technology and computers. All my
friends know I am always trying something new.

During the summer of 2001, I was working at [Progress Software
Corporation](http://www.progress.com/).

In the summer of 2002, I worked for [Prof. Brian
White](http://intro.bio.umb.edu/BW/) from the [UMass Biology
Department](http://www.bio.umb.edu/). I developed a interactive website
using perl and javascript for one his introductory lab courses.

In the summer of 2003 I got an internship to work at [National Power
Grid, USA](http://www.nationalgridus.com/). Here I was working for the
Systems Planning Group in Northborough. The work here was really
exciting as I was able to finished two projects while I was there. The
first one was a VB.NET application with an Oracle backend. The second
project was porting an old application done in Paradox into MS Access.
While I was working at the Grid, I made some great friends. Check out
[Scott's](http://shingebis.org/) and [John's
websites](http://homepage.mac.com/johnff3355/).

During the Fall of 2003 I helped the [UMass](http://www.umb.edu/) Web
development team setup a UMass forum and mailing list system. I setup a
Debian based secure linux system and installed phpBB2 for the forum and
mailman for the mailing list. I have helped them off and on with other
website development efforts. Joe Peters who heads the group is a really
nice guy and has always helped me with other UMass web projects.

The other web projects I have done at UMass are

-   [International Student Services at UMass
    Boston](http://www.iss.umb.edu/) - I was a graduate assistant at
    this office ever since I started studying at UMass. This site has a
    special place in my heart, as it is my first project.
-   [UMass University advising center](http://www.uac.umb.edu/)
-   [Boston Globe Taylor Scholarship
    Program](http://www.taylor.umb.edu/)

I programme in C, C\#, Java, VB.NET, VB and Perl. I love network
programming, database programming web programming and writing shell/Perl
Scripts.

I also have had the opportunity to participate in various extra
curricular activities - I was a [Graduate Student
Assembly](http://www.gsa.umb.edu/) member at UMass Boston and also had
the opportunity to serve as President for one year. I have helped
coordinate research conferences, fellowship awards, and other such
activities. I was one of the founder members of Electrical Engineers
Students Association (E.E.S.A) in 1994 in my [undergraduate
college](http://www.rknec.edu/). We organized - State level Paper
presentation, Seminars, Industrial tours and Cultural gatherings. I have
been a keen dramatist and have won prizes for inter collegiate drama
competitions. I have Directed a few plays for E.E.S.A. I have been in
the organizing committee of an inter-collegiate youth festival called
Pratishruti. I have also actively participated in sports and have won
prizes in long distance running. During my High School, I was House
Captain. I have also been President of our High School's Intract club
(subsidiary of Rotract club of India).
